How-to Connections Guide (#2554)
astronomer/docs: learn/connections-azure-synapse.md

---
title: "Creating an Azure Synapse connection in Airflow"
id: azure-synapse
sidebar_label: Azure Synapse
description: Learn how to create an Azure Synapse connection.
---

> [Azure Synapse](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/synapse-analytics/#:~:text=Azure%20Synapse%20Analytics%20is%20an,log%20and%20time%20series%20analytics.) is an enterprise analytics service from Microsoft. Integrating Airflow with Synapse allows users to run their Spark jobs on Azure Synapse and run SQL queries in the Synapse SQL pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Azure Synapse](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/synapse-analytics/#:~:text=Azure%20Synapse%20Analytics%20is%20an,log%20and%20time%20series%20analytics.) is an enterprise analytics service from Microsoft. Integrating Airflow with Synapse means you can use DAGs to schedule Spark jobs on Azure Synapse and run SQL queries in the Synapse SQL pool.
```

## Prerequisites
- The [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/overview).
- A locally running [Astro project](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/get-started-cli).

> - Access to a [Azure Synapse workspace](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/synapse-analytics/get-started)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Access to an [Azure Synapse workspace](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/synapse-analytics/get-started)
```

> - Access to your Synapse Database from Airflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Access to your Synapse Database
```
Right?

## Get Connection details

A connection from Airflow to Azure data factory requires the following information:

- Subscription ID
- Data factory name
- Resource group name
- Application Client ID
- Tenant ID
- Client secret

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Complete the following steps to retrieve this information:
```

> 1. Go to [Synapse Analytics](https://portal.azure.com/#view/HubsExtension/BrowseResource/resourceType/Microsoft.Synapse%2Fworkspaces) on Azure Portal
> 2. Go to your workspace and copy the following
>     - SQL Endpoint (Either **Dedicated** or **Serverless** whichever you want to use)
>     - SQL Admin username and password
>     - SQL Pool name to run queries in
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open your [Synapse Analytics workspace](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/synapse-analytics/get-started-create-workspace) on Azure Portal.
2. Copy the following details:
    - SQL Endpoint (Both **Dedicated** or **Serverless** work)
    - SQL Admin username and password
    - SQL Pool name 
```

- Python requirement `apache-airflow-providers-odbc` should be added to `requirements.txt`
- Install ODBC Driver to your Docker image:
  - Add the following OS-level packages to your `packages.txt`
    ```bash
      gcc
      g++
      unixodbc
      unixodbc-dev
    ```
  - Add the following to your `Dockerfile`
    ```docker
      USER root
      RUN curl https://packages.microsoft.com/keys/microsoft.asc | tee /etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d/microsoft.asc

      #Debian 11
      RUN curl https://packages.microsoft.com/config/debian/11/prod.list > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mssql-release.list

      RUN apt-get update
      RUN ACCEPT_EULA=Y apt-get install -y msodbcsql18
      # optional: for bcp and sqlcmd
      RUN ACCEPT_EULA=Y apt-get install -y mssql-tools18
      # optional: for unixODBC development headers
      RUN apt-get install -y unixodbc-dev
      USER astro
      ## end - odbc driver install
    ```

> ## Get Connection details

Reviewer: Looks like there's still some conflict/ draft information in this doc. Will take a look after it's cleaned up
